# Executive Summary of Project
Evaluating the risk of corporate bankruptcies is of paramount importance to creditors and investors. Our assignment utilized our client PKO Bank Polski's corporate debtor dataset to develop a bankruptcy prediction model. PKO Bank Polski is the largest bank in Poland and one of the largest in central/eastern Europe. It was founded in 1919 and is in the commercial banking sector. In 2019, their profit was 4,03 billion złoty, or 950 million Euros, and assets valued at over 348 billion złoty, or 81 billion Euros. This model would assist PKO Bank Polski in deciding which corporations to supply credit, minimizing risk, and maximize interest income. The dataset was fully complete with standardized numerical predictors; our preprocessing involved finding the relevant predictors and dealing with the data's skewed aspects. For predictor selection, we utilized two concurrent methods. We narrowed down the 64 attributes to 38 via average analysis, correlation, and box plot visualization for the Mean Analysis method. The other method used Principal Component Analysis for dimensionality reduction, the results being a dataset of seven principal components. These two datasets were used concurrently, later on, to find the best results during model testing. To counteract possible adverse effects from the imbalance dataset, an Oversampling treatment was introduced within the model algorithms. This alteration would allow us to assess whether oversampling and henceforth accounting for our data's imbalanced aspects would yield better results as the models are tested. A variety of models were built and tested, their performance was ranked on their accuracy, AUC_ROC score, and total time it takes to run such a model. After developing a ranking algorithm, five models were chosen as the most effective while being time-efficient. Utilizing the confusion matrix results we recommend the Neural Networks Model and Decision Tree model would be the most effective. This report aims to bring new knowledge to PKO Bank Polski by outlining the development of efficient and accurate models for investing decisions.
